---
title: "How to be a TL for a large group?"
date: 2023-11-25
---

__Under construction...__

Different companies might have different names for engineers tech leading a large group, such as "uber TL", "architect" or simply "very senior IC". In small companies, "chief engineer" may fall into this category as well. Typically such TLs work with multiple teams without managing any people. Based on their deep domain knowledge and rich experience, they identify techincal opportunities and riks; influence large techincal decisions and resource allocaiton. More often than not, they are also tasked with building engineering culture.

There are quite some unique challenges for such a role. First of all, uber TLs face various techincal problems from various projects. They need to spend a lot of time and effort on staying abreast of  overall progress of the whole group as well as lastest techinologies. How to allocate their attention and decide the level of involvement requires careful consideration. Because uber TLs don't own projects or manage team members directly, how to exert their influence effectively is also less straightforward than being a team TL or a manager.

I drew a few guidelines for myself the first time when I took on such a role. And I have been revising them overtime. I hope they might be helpful for you too.

## Be the index of the encyclopedia, and at least some chapters of it.
## Be accessible to both senior and junior team members.
## Build the right amount of engineering processes.
## Don't step on the toes of individual team managers and TLs.
Respect the boundaries.
## Be humble.
When you don't know something, openly acknowledge it. If it matters, spend time to learn about it soon.
## Set an example of an excellent engineer.
